and so what's your name friend William
William welcome we're thank you I
understand where you you had asked a
question on our AMA stream is that right
yeah and what was your question well I
have a lot of different questions though
but one of the ones are the one you have
in the title so can someone actually be
fully healed okay and I what did I say
back then I don't remember I was drunk
oh I did I didn't ask that question I
asked yeah I asked about more it's kind
of the same its it like I thought I had
gotten better it's a little bit what you
talked in a reckful stream where you
know where you think you get better but
after a while it hits you again
basically and and that's where I am at
basically yeah I thought I'd dealt with
by things but it turned back again and
stuff like that
okay so so when you when you say it
turns back or like so it sounds like you
made progress and then you start to slip
back yeah I thought it I thought I was
done with it like completely okay what's
my check psychologist also thought um
but but then like after two months it
came back again
and it wasn't so clear because um so
what I could do before was I could
actually listen to my emotion like why
am I feeling oh okay I'm getting these
kind of flashbacks was things like that
but this time it was more like a
constant noise or noise constant feeling
how I felt that dragged me down and I
couldn't really listen to a specific
thing if it makes any sense like it was
lasting for long periods let's just take
a step back volume so first I want to
ask you for a definition so when you say
can someone be fully healed right what
so let's start with your perception when
you're asking that question what do you
think fully healed looks like
um it to me it is more like you can take
it really without it affecting you okay
and and we'll get to what it is in a
second okay without it affecting you
okay
yeah maybe that's it okay I don't know
what else
okay yeah so then tell me can you tell
me a little bit about what you've
struggled with and then you know tell us
what you struggled with what got better
and then okay how you slipped back okay
um so I have yeah a very narcissistic
parent so can you tell us what well
means um I mean there's a lot to tell
but she it was just the world was
evolving just around her basically she
treated all only for her own benefits um
I mean
so I mean the reason why she even got us
kids born was to for her to be able to
stay in the country as well she didn't
won't really want to raise kids um help
me help me understand how you know that
oh she well she directly said it to me
when I confronted because I've always
yeah there's been a lot of questions
I've always tried to fit the puzzle
pieces together with all the information
I got him from you know my grin line
from how the pieces look like um well
there's so much to say but I wondered
how a person can behave like they can
like how can a person be or how did that
person become who that person is like
how is it possible so for instance my
grandma took care of me when I was
younger um the case yeah because my mom
wasn't there and my grandma was really
really nice person
so I didn't understand really why my mom
turned out the way she turned out to be
so like we don't really make sense for
me if it's okay with you here's what I'm
envisioning I'm envisioning that there
are people in our audience right now who
may have a narcissistic parent and don't
realize that that parent is narcissistic
okay so what I'd love for you to do if
you feel comfortable with it is yeah is
to tell us like give us an example of
something that your mom did or a couple
of the puzzle pieces when you were
asking how did she end up this way like
what did you see that made you start to
ask her did you ever want kids right
because that like well yeah so I mean
ever since I was born or as far as I
remember she told me that she hated me
and that I just take space in the world
and that I'm a total useless piece of
[ __ ] and she always put me into really
high demands like told me really high
things or okay yeah like she minified me
extremely much like I wouldn't past like
middle school and when I passed middle
school she told me I wouldn't pass high
school and one
I passed high school she would tell me
you know nothing really pleased her and
she would just yeah minify me always
like by these tasks like and I don't
know there's so much like I could never
walk beside her
I was actually always walking behind her
when we were out walking in town of
things like that
she had posters of herself and she in
the house which I actually yeah I didn't
think that much until my friends pointed
it out but also she always claimed like
the biggest groom I'm being very
analytical here because I'm a very
analytical person I said she oh yeah she
always claimed the biggest room when
when I compared to my friends and when I
was over at their places and stuff like
that they would sacrifice it for their
kids so they would take the smallest
room and give the biggest room to their
parents to their kids but my mom which
was like basically never at home took
the biggest her room she when we wanted
things or things like that if it did not
give her for any benefit if it was just
yeah what's a computer or a computer
game she would not really spend money
for that but if it if it was more for
her own benefit and status she would
help out like you know maybe getting
into better school or stuff like that
she would step up and do it so she could
brag more with her friends about how
amazing her kids were so for instance
when when I met her friends and they
asked asked me like oh who is this
little guy
it's very seldom that I even could
present myself it would usually be my
mom speaking for me and it would be so
little so it could be oh yeah that's my
youngest son he's eight years old or so
and then then she just goes immediately
to my brother which you know he's an A
student
he's actually a doctor as well my
condolences but yeah so it was always
drifting towards that immediately like
even when people asked me she would just
convert it directly to my brother and me
like oh but my his brother is a doctor
blah blah blah and his dude and you know
he's awesome ba ba ba and stuff like
that so what is there as a narcissistic
parent I don't know yeah that's that's
great guys come on thank you so much
yeah it's not great it's terrible what
you had to do yeah that's exact
you know when you say those kinds of
things I think it helps people
understand like that terminology and I
think it's good that it sounds like
you've been working with psychologists
so it's clear to me that your analytical
you know what you're talking about
you're pretty familiar with this stuff
there's something else I could add on it
as well that might be clarifies it is
they I don't know if it was like I guess
it's a little bit connected with like
sociopaths as well like they're very
good at playing with people's emotion
just for their own benefit and what do
you mean by mant mmm so my mother played
a lot of the victim card she was like oh
I'm yeah I don't know how much
go into details but basically she was
like oh yeah it's poor me I'm single mom
raising YouTube kids but literally it
was her choice doing it and she's done a
lot of really really crazy things behind
the scenes I'm probably not gonna go
okay shouldn't sit here I think yeah
yeah okay but yeah yeah I'm glad you
feel comfortable sort of saying yeah I'm
not gonna I don't feel comfortable
talking about that that's very important
I I am quite comfortable talking with it
I just yeah I think it doesn't fit so
much I don't know like hmm it's a little
bit more yeah I'll just stop myself
there I think it's true yeah so we'll
just one one point about that I want you
to feel very comfortable not talking
about something that you don't want to
talk about yeah
but generally speaking if your thought
is that it's not relevant then I would
question that because I think oh the
whole point of these conversations is
that when people give me raw data
instead of their analysis I tend to be
able to help them more because if I get
your analysis I'm dealing with your
biases and I can't form my own lecture
so I'm not trying to pressure you into
saying it I want to be very clear about
that but and we don't have to talk about
now I point to cell I can talk about why
I'm restricting myself a little bit let
me just sure change battery on my
headset just one second here okay can I
hear yeah I
I think okay it's because of the well
work-related I have probation and I'm
that's why I'm thinking okay a little
bit let's just steer clear let's not
even take a chance can you tell me about
your older brother you have one sibling
yeah just one sibling yeah can you tell
me about him uh well he's a doctor okay
five years older than me okay probably
the kindest brother I could ever wish
for
really but yes but he I think he never
ever really understood how I felt I
thought he did at one point when he
called me one time and said dude oh so
what was happening was I moved out and
what happened was my mom started
projecting it towards my brother which
has never ever happened before I was
always the one taking it yeah all the
shits that she had to project or so
which I guess cuz I'm smaller and it's
easier and she portrayed in me as the
bad person cuz I never lived up to her
demands and stuff like that but yeah so
when I moved out he was calling me and
he was like [ __ ] dude I'm sorry I didn't
know he was this much like I've been
just experiencing this for two three
days and I can't imagine you've been
living this through your entire life
yeah how does it feel to say that well
what are you feeling right now um I felt
that he understood at that point what
even now I don't know like as you say
those words yeah I can't steal it I can
still I can still feel how I felt back
then and well are not feeling tell us
about that
Oh
[Music]
why am I here
what are you it's it's like what am I
doing here why am I here why am i
existing even like it yeah
so let me know so when your brother
called you and told you that I can't
believe you've been doing this with this
your entire life I've just been doing it
with two or three days the way then you
felt was why am I here
no no oh oh you mean at that point sorry
sorry I thought you meant what the
feelings of of those feelings were sorry
yeah what that feeling was I felt like
oh [ __ ] finally my brother and
understands me
um because I don't know yeah you can
stop me also at whenever you want um cuz
I don't have her own stuff but first
time I mean I had suicidal thoughts
already when I was like around 8:00 and
I was really really considering like hey
yeah I don't know I shouldn't yeah I
should have been dead I guess when I was
like 12
well I mean the day after in debt when
you were well like yeah I tried to jump
off a cliff but in the end I got
flashbacks from my grandmother which is
the one and the main reason why I'm
still alive I guess but I somehow
managed to lunch myself back to safety
again I was literally outside another
cliff and I I talked to my brother the
day after I was like yeah I was supposed
to be dead yesterday and stuff like that
um What did he say
so I don't remember
too much cuz it's like because I talked
a lot with my brother about the past and
stuff like that as well and and we both
have like kind of no memories of her
childhood like till were 15 or something
like that but from what I think and from
all right I do believe and I remember is
that um yeah he was like oh oh [ __ ] cuz
he hasn't been really that good with
talking with emotions sure um and I
don't know how much he actually
remembers cuz I told him like a year ago
I was like did I'm feeling so bad I'm
really at a bad point and he was like oh
it's just D vitamin so it's uh I don't
know if it's some doctor thing or if
it's uh yeah I don't know but yeah so
can I ask you do you so can you tell us
a little bit about like pulling yourself
back from the cliff why did you do that
I got flashbacks from my grandmother
that she would be crying so much and it
would be very egoistic to do it um
actually anybody was just a flashback of
my grandmother crying see and I managed
to somehow launch myself back to safety
do you regret not jumping
I don't know good answer
I'm glad you didn't jump yeah but I
think it's okay to not know mm-hm right
whether you made the right choice there
or not is your grandmother's still alive
she is
what's your yeah how's she doing
uh-huh pretty bad right now
um which has also been a very major
point on on how it's affected me how
long has she been pretty bad
well I
the reason why she couldn't take of care
of me anymore when I was 8 years old
onwards she was in an accident and after
that she just got bad all the way was
better than me
mmm he'd never she she had problem
walking and stuff like that and it just
got worse and worse and yeah and I I got
after a while when I kept like I kept
visiting her right and she got yeah bad
also in the memory and thought wise so
she confused me with my brother even
with my uncle and stuff like that so I
felt like I wasn't really meeting my
grandma anymore like she was funny -
yeah fade away how long has that been
going on
two years two years out when her oh the
accident or her memory part of her
memory uh two years ish okay two to
three years and I I got so much guilt it
takes me it takes me a while to get
there even to visit her cuz it's another
city and even when I visit her the
feeling is also not right cuz yeah she's
just so confused and stuff like that
sure so I decided to and which was so
hard for me to do but I decided to try
to work with myself and cuz I I could
barely even visit her as well because I
was at a pretty bad condition but that
led me to feeling even more guilt
because I didn't visit her on top of
that so it was like just a bad Luke on
top of that with everything else I had
you felt like you were abandoning her
yeah I felt like the only one that I
could trust in this world yeah
you felt like the only one you could
trust in this world was heard so what
would you feel by when you sort of
decided to work on yourself no I knew
high I had I knew I had to twist yeah
what are you feeling right now well it's
uh yeah I don't know it's it's just
that's yeah I don't know maybe I feeling
I will never
get again basically well yeah yeah I'm
imagining that you're kind of just
remembering you know how much she meant
to you and that yeah I think she was the
only one that made me human to be honest
um yeah or somewhat human but yeah
William do you feel alone for sure for
sure is that the main is that that I'm
not part of it I don't think so I've
there's so many other parts on it I've
been thinking about it too if it is but
I think like even if so I can even be
with friends and stuff like that and and
still feel lonely um it's just that I
don't think I think there's so much more
into it tell us well I think I mean when
I've been in a relationship I know what
happiness can be I don't have to fake it
um I know how the world should be when
you're a functional human so I'm touched
upon that part and mmm you know it's
possible yeah but I think it was through
distraction that I reached it as a
relationship I I think yeah the dealt
with all my problems when I met the peak
like it when I'm feeling good yeah how
do you feel we know it like that when
I'm feeling bad I don't have motivation
I I have so many different kind of bad
periods sure so it depends on which one
you mean so let's start by tell us the
different kinds of bad okay excellent
point on your part um yeah I mean I
guess that's already one of them when
I've been already telling me since my
childhood basically and yeah that was i
I didn't understand why what function I
even had to why I was existing because
what I just heard from my mom was that
she hates me and that I just take place
in the world and and uh that she doesn't
even want me and so I took
the routes I yeah I what struck me a lot
was like when my friend told me likes
dude who's live are you actually living
for
it's not even your life and I'm like
what do you mean and then that's kind of
first time I opened up I was like living
the life to try to pleasure my mom
basically were to meet up her demands
which was never met anyways
been crazy how like how crazy is that
she really could never say thank you or
you know have never even heard her say I
love your stuff like that that was
totally out of the dictionary it's more
like when she told me to do things
it was always never good enough no
matter what I did like if I vacuumed the
house and I she came home and saw it she
would scream at me and also say the way
like you have not vacuum clean right as
in intending that I haven't done it very
much even still s even though I might
have still done it in the house
oh 10 yeah I don't know firely I I did a
lot I did shopping I helped her helped
her doing washing clothes I yeah there's
a lot of things but she have yeah two
older no she's the oldest hmm did she
have to help a lot around the house I
know how much from the story from what I
understand I'm not really sure I haven't
asked too much about it and I don't
remember who told me it but he might be
from her so it might be very false or I
take everything she says there with a
very grain of salt I can't really trust
my mother so I don't really if it's for
my mother then which I think it is she
said that she took care of her siblings
because parents were yeah out and stuff
like my my grandpa was a prison and my
grandma had to take care of her or
something like that
oddly enough I I don't know if she's
mistaken there wait she may she may be
right that she took care of her siblings
and we'll get to that and said okay yeah
okay yeah yeah oh yeah different kind of
beds sorry uh I trailed off a little bit
yeah so that would be like yeah I took
detours oh yeah and she she made me do a
lot of things that I okay so this kind
of paths I'm trailing off a little bit
too much here I see I'm just gonna try
to talk about the bad the bachelor boy
yeah
you're doing fine bro okay yeah so the
bats were like you're doing actually
really well thank you it's I tried to
always when I was younger I tried to
always make my mom happier so the
punishment would be less yeah verbally
and stuff like that so I always when I
came home
look if they were her shoes inside so I
could prepare what kind of state I could
be and I came here by our footsteps
before like if I were to play computer
games
I had study materials next to me so I
would like shut off the screen and put
it in front of me just to make her not
rage as much as she would towards me
just to prevent as much as I could and
you know try to even flatter her by some
complements and stuff like that but so
yeah
that kind of bad is like I tried to do
something I kind of diss not really I
didn't really discussed it at that time
but like I had to live through it and
and still still feel bad about it in
that punishment and then there is a
later on before I even talked a lot
about this and managed this
I had the different kind of bad as in
everything was extremely heavy um no
matter what I did you mean like physical
heaviness mmm and mentally especially
like you felt like your body was heavy
yeah
everything I did you described it really
good when you say debuff it really is a
big debuff yeah cuz and it effects on
everything so how about at that that
time of debuff last like the heaviness
that one yeah
um because it's been in periods and
stuff like that
I felt it mostly when I broke up with my
girlfriend so that one lasted for I
would say two two years but before that
I had gone through it for a very long
time but I think like I was living with
it so like my my thoughts were when I
broke up when my girlfriend again was
like holy [ __ ] has it been this bad
maybe I cuz I wasn't quite a long time
relationship so I think I faded it out
for like five and a half years and I'm
okay yep so yeah I I think I didn't
really remember but there's actually a
lot of things there that I could also
mention actually in that period too but
yeah I I didn't understand how heavily
I've been through it every day because I
think I got used to it so much at that
time even though I still know it's been
really shitty like I even wrote a diary
how often my mom would scream at my ear
and telling me how useless I am and
stuff like that even when I was begging
or banging my head against the wall and
screaming for her to stop she would
still continue to do that so I brought
that diary how many times she does it at
my probably worst period and I stopped
after like a week when I realized she
did it on an average one to one and a
half hour per day just screaming at
these things and stuff like that but
yeah sorry I lost all
what I was that that's a that you don't
I think you're doing a really remarkable
job of trying to keep track of the
conversation you don't actually need to
keep track of it so much I'm keeping
track yeah
can I ask you a couple of other so first
of all dude it sounds like you've been
through like just you just have a really
shitty life yeah for sure yeah I cannot
imagine having your mom you know like be
banging your head against a wall
signaling to her in every way that you
know how that you were distressed and
that you were hurting and that she
doesn't give a [ __ ] and just keeps
hurting to be honest I think she was
actually enjoying it even more there's a
lot of things I've tried I mean I
started even ignoring her I tried to
ignore technique because yeah I remember
I talked to my grandma I said dude I
think I can't I can't last anymore like
I'm so broken and I'm quite young when
I'm saying this I was like yeah cuz I
was thinking about moving out already
when I was like yeah 11 12 ish and well
that's when I started ignoring her for
one and a half year as well I tried so
many different techniques just to try to
see what works and what you know so even
when we were living in the same roof I
ignored what happens to someone who
tries a lot of techniques and none of
them work well that that's my other dark
side so the first yeah these first
thought that I'm talking about like even
though it still felt so had been stuff
like that I still felt like I knew or I
knew I had possibilities to actually
work with methods that would help me
like I tried to discover a lot by myself
how to improve and stuff like that I
were visiting the psychologist and
things like that so I still kind of felt
hope but especially when I beat me again
down to these bad loops and especially
when it went longer and longer I felt
more and more hopeless like oh [ __ ]
maybe there is no way to go like I've
done everything by the textbook above
yeah I had so many things so that's my
second bed where I start to feel because
now I don't feel as heavy as before
definitely not but there has been
periods yeah but they're not as heavy as
before definitely not before I could
think how yeah suicidal thoughts like
four five times per day but now it's
it's more yeah the the way of it's
hopeless and I'm I'm not yeah getting
anywhere I've tried a lot yeah so I'm
actually a little bit surprised that you
you're still alive
does that yeah no no no no I I actually
say that to everyone I meet that I share
this story like I don't know why I'm
still alive that's that's how I'm saying
I'm I literally don't know why I'm still
alive and that's why I don't want to
promise anyone as well when it comes to
them saying like yeah but yeah that's
enough yeah yeah I get you
so we're gonna think about I'm gonna
just can I collect my thoughts for a
moment yep
so let me start with this William I feel
like I've asked you two percent of the
questions that I want to ask and I
understand two percent of what I want to
understand about you okay and at the
same time I feel like I you know people
come on here for answers and so we have
to take a step back and acknowledge that
the answers are I'm you know I don't
really have answers but the thoughts
that I have for you aren't gonna be
accurate because I really don't know you
know we've just scratched the surface of
we yeah yeah at the same time you know I
want to share with you something that a
patient of mine who had tried to commit
suicide several times you know and one
day I asked him because he feels a lot
the same way you do and so I was like
you know so it sounds like you don't
really have any like reason to live like
what you know you don't have hope which
is fair because if you don't have any
reason to hope all right cuz like we
just tell people like oh just like keep
hope and keep hoping I think people who
say that don't really understand what
yes the lives of the people that they're
talking to have been like I cannot you
know to be an eight-year-old child and
yelling at your mom to stop and banging
your head against a wall because what
she's saying is hurting you and for her
to continue yelling at you for like 60
minutes or 90 minutes is just like why
the [ __ ]
and then like how many days can an
eight-year-old hold on to hope with that
happening how many years can you hold on
like you know at some point the hope
runs out and I get that I don't think
it's reasonable for you to hope and also
I want you to hope and I hope that I can
help you hope a little bit and if I
can't that's okay too because I don't
think it's my place to believe that I
can get you to hope does that make sense
like I'm gonna give it a shot but if you
choose not to hope at the end of this
conversation like that's totally cool
man and like I have no problem with that
mmm I'll be saying head but at the same
time like I won't blame you for it right
cuz like why the [ __ ] would you hope
like you
doing this for 29 years and you know it
sounds like whenever you start to claw
your way forward something just pulls
you back and what's pulling you back I
mean you know I almost get the sense
that you're swimming in the ocean and
you have a cannonball attached to your
legs and you can work really really
really hard to swim to the surface and
get a breath of fresh air and then
you're kind of like put like you're not
pulling the cannonball up but like any
time you start to slack a little bit
that cannonball is there just drags you
down and I don't see a point and you
continuing to try to swim to the surface
if you can't ever get rid of a
cannonball like that's just no way to
win life like live life yeah so the
question is why do you live and I don't
mean that I'll give you the good answer
yeah right and I don't mean like like I
don't mean that in the philosophical
sense no I get you though because I've
been thinking about that extremely much
as well one of them is I try to not be
to be egoistic or maybe that's the main
reason but that also runs out after a
while but yeah basically like even
though what I feel as I feel I know
logically like for instance my brother
would be devastated and before that like
when my grandma went and then I don't
think you get it
hold on okay that stuff is fine I mean
like literally like wire like so I'm not
saying okay so let me tell you what this
patient told me okay okay so he's like
you know he tried to kill himself a
bunch of times and and so like I was
like why don't you kill yourself like
you know why are you no longer suicide
ladies like he had suicidal thoughts but
he wasn't intending on killing himself
and then I asked him you know why is
that he's like well you know after the
third or fourth time I realized that as
much as I wanted to kill myself and I
would try to kill myself my body
wouldn't let me hmm so literally the
reason he's alive is not because he has
a reason to live but because there's
literally a force literally on his body
keeps him from killing himself mm-hmm
and that there was something inside you
that wants to live more than you want to
die right that is the reason I think
you're alive and yeah I didn't recognize
with that as well
yeah and it's [ __ ] weird because you
want to die but there's something inside
you that's like no man we're not gonna
do that
hmm right and in his case like he was
like he literally realized that he was
trying to kill his body so there was
some part of his being that was like
putting pills into his mouth and trying
to kill himself and there was another
part of his body that was like this is
bad for me I don't want this and he
would vomit and so one thing and I don't
mean this in sort of a philosophical or
psychological sense I mean like
literally if we look at it
scientifically there is something within
you that is striving for life and that's
the only if we really look at it
scientifically with everything all the
[ __ ] that you've been through if you
haven't killed yourself the reasons to
kill yourself are like let's give it a
score of a thousand and if you haven't
died that means that there's something
inside you that is worth 1,001 fighting
against that what can we just
acknowledge that for a moment like does
that make sense yeah and and so I think
your way forward isn't understanding
like what the [ __ ] is that right because
if we can try it like and I think you
can talk about all of the things that
are bad in your life and the different
kinds of bad you experience fantastic I
think each of those are particular D
buffs that you need to cleanse before
you get healed and I do think that you
can get healed and the reason that I
think you can get healed is very its
scientific it's not hope it's not
philosophical it's not even
psychological it's just that I see a guy
who has something within his whole being
of a person that wants to live more than
you want to die and I just don't think
you understand what that is and I think
you've lived your whole life being
confused about that thing but as you
begin to understand it you'll
actually find hope but it's not gonna
come from like me telling you that life
is you know worth living which I do
think it is and I do think you should
continue to live I'm glad you're alive
and I do have hope for you I think you
can be fully healed let me just say all
those things good I really do we have
that and yeah I mean yeah I I think then
too I think it comes from it starts with
the exploration of like live and I think
you're in the right spot like you're
like you know why am I here
and it's not a rhetorical question that
doesn't mean I don't have any reason to
live although that could be true but the
question is if you have no reason to
live and yet you continue to exist and
you have no reason to be there there has
to be a reason why you're here and
finding that thing is gonna be the start
of your journey right so like we have to
accept as a fact that you are here yeah
and that like this is the other thing
now we get philosophical because I think
like there's order in the universe like
I think things happen for a reason and I
don't mean that in terms of like a
divine reason I mean like literally if I
hold this pen and I let go it's gonna
fall
it fell for a reason like like if there
if there's rain that means that they're
gonna be clouds right that there's like
order and rhythm to the universe and
that if you're alive like I don't think
that order in the universe breaks down
at some arbitrary point which is what a
lot of people who claimed to be
scientific believed right so they sort
of say that lay out there's like an
order to clouds and rain and stuff but
there's not an order to life they just
sort of draw this arbitrary dividing
line which in my mind let me know if I'm
losing you or if this is getting
abstract you fall um I think so yeah
okay anyway so I think that there's a
there's a reason that you're alive yeah
and I think we have to explore kind of
what that is the second thing is in
terms of your question of can you be
healed
I've only they're fully healed yeah I
think so although maybe not let me
about that for a second I think you can
be healed enough to where you can no
longer want to die and you will cling on
to life I do believe you can be fully
healed as well but as a clinician and
the scientist I can't put my money on
fully healed but I do feel comfortable
putting my money on healed enough yeah
so if you would put a percentage on it
how much would it be so to say 80% okay
yeah that's cool yeah I was guessing
around eighty ninety two myself
yeah I'm nine he's a little bit
optimistic like I believe it's possible
sure but I'd put my money on eighty yeah
okay and here's and I want to hear a
little bit more about like you know your
backslide and when you started feeling
better and stuff but even before we go
there I'll share a couple of thoughts if
that's okay with you
do you want to jump in and say anything
or ask questions by the way no I'm fine
okay so I'm gonna share with you a
couple of thoughts and then I want to
ask you a little bit about how you
started to feel better and now how you
feel worse okay so I think the problem
with getting fully healed is that like
you think about getting fully healed is
like 80% but it's not really 80% it's
like like sorry did you ever play
fallout no okay
so in fallout you have like different
body parts and you can like target and
damage different body parts right and
then like depending on what you damage
you like lose some ability like if
someone like wounds your leg then your
movement speed is reduced if they wound
your arm you can't shoot things you know
and so I think when we talk about a
hundred percent I don't know if you can
get a hundred percent but I think you
can like heal your leg and like have the
movement debuff gone hmm and so so I
think it's actually in a weird way
optimistic that you have a lot of
different kinds of bad because if it was
just one blob of bad like I don't know
what to do about that but the feeling of
loneliness is like a particular thing
that I think you can improve the feeling
of motivation
I think it's a particularly of
hopelessness I think is a particularly
being extremely heavy which hits you for
two years at a time is a particular
thing which you can improve and I think
all of these things are maybe related in
some way but I think they're discrete
things so for example your feeling of
extreme heaviness sounds to me like
clinical depression it sounds like you
suffer for something called neuro
vegetative depression and the cool thing
is that we have good scientific evidence
that there may be mental health
treatments that you can engage in which
will drastically reduce the hurt from
that thing the feeling of loneliness I
think also is something that we can
address the feeling of oh and this is
the big one is worth like you don't you
literally have not been taught that it's
okay for you to exist like I don't know
how else to put that but like literally
you were taught that you it's not okay
for you to exist
so most eight-year-olds sort of have
this fundamental sense of self that it's
like okay for me to be here right now
right like they walk up to you they're
like Daddy can I have food because they
have a presumption that like it's okay
for me to be here it's okay for me to
walk up to my dad and it's okay for me
to ask him for food if they feel hungry
like you were actually the most
devastating thing is you are not given
like a baseline permission to exist as a
human being and so I I don't know how
you're gonna find why you exist if
you're not even allowed to exist in the
first place does that make sense
yeah but it's like you don't even
deserve to have air to breathe is like
what you were told so it sort of starts
and this is where I think like you know
fully healed maybe we can actually like
you know go from we can print heal you
to like a hundred percent I think that's
possible unlikely but possible and in
the what the committee looks like is for
you to have a basic sense that you are
allowed to belong in the world and I
think you've got to be careful because
you're saying I don't feel like I belong
I think that's even the reason that you
haven't made progress is because I think
you're you're not really meeting
yourself where you're at it's not even
that like why do you belong that's not
even like that's one step ahead
it's are you even allowed to belong in
any way shape or form that's the first
question you got answer because I think
right now in your head there's a part of
you that the answer is no like you don't
deserve to be here at all like what do
you think about that yeah so I I have
thought about that as well a lot so I
tried to really live in the now so I
tried to be very neutral on that point
but before that yes 100% but now I still
try to be very neutral and I would say
yeah I don't know where I'm at at that
point okay oh you wouldn't say no or yes
so William I'm tempted to go down this
road with you but I think it could be
hard for you to understand because I
don't know how to explain it adequately
and I think we're gonna lose our viewers
even more but I'm gonna give it a shot
is that okay okay so let's start with
the idea that you don't even deserve to
be here in any way shape or form forget
about why am I here it's like you're not
allowed to be here to begin with with me
there okay okay so why am I here is a
question that's like for level two level
one question is do I get to be here with
me mm-hmm
then you said okay so that was a
question where you used to ask yourself
do I even get to be here do I get to
spawn in at all or do I like sit in the
lobby and like never get to spawn in and
don't get to play the game like why I'm
playing the game is a separate question
do I even get to spawn in with me yeah
yeah then you said you started being in
the present and the more that you're in
the present it sounds like it's easier
to get away from the question of do I
get to spawn in at all yes yeah yes now
let me ask you a question is being in
the present does that give you do you
feel like you have permission to exist
or do you distract yourself from the
question of whether you have permission
to exist
probably distracting myself from the
question I would say yeah okay I hope
people are able to follow that because
that's really important right because
what I think your perception of sliding
back is which in turn is gonna make you
hopeless right so the more that you feel
like you're moving forward and you slide
back the more your hopelessness is gonna
increase that's logical with me yeah
right so but I think that the reason
that you you're right to be hopeless
because that's not actually getting
healed that's like getting shielded
right and so a shield sort of gives you
the same effect as healing but it's not
really healing because when the shield
goes away like you're back to square one
and then you start to ask yourself can I
get healed when actually what you're
doing is you're distracting which is
like a shield its bonus hit points it's
not actual healing yeah so now I have to
think even if that's the case so I feel
like I understand you now I have the
problem of where do we go through so I'm
gonna need a second do you have
questions mmm no okay that would help me
a lot if you did but yeah you can ask me
questions if there's something unclear
no I mean there I mean there's a lot
that I want to know about you but I feel
like we're on the same page that you
know your attempts to get better aren't
really getting you better which I agree
with yeah I just don't know how to heal
you huh which I have to just give me a
second okay so I'm gonna think out all
right so you don't
even deserve to exist so how do we help
you understand that you deserve to exist
and do we want to ask you more questions
about so the safer route is probably we
just ask you more questions about how
you got how you came to know that you
don't deserve to exist or we can just
try to give you an experience of you
taking your existence for granted and
for you to understand and sit and feel
within yourself that you deserve to be
here something
as well yeah that might give you it so I
think this with it with the existence
part I think that also is very much
connected to the loneliness that I feel
like even when friends say that oh yeah
you mean a lot to me and stuff like that
it's it's kind of like I don't really
believe them yeah yes but I do have
worked with a lot of self-compassion and
taking like you complimented ghost in
the real world I have done like that
extremely many times yes like where I
dissociate disassociate myself
well extremely much like even when I'm
at a party with friends that are close
to me and everybody's happy I just
wonder like what am I doing here oh
right I have to take my happiness around
them and stuff like that this all what
yeah the the ghost thing is yeah
it's it's very it has been many of that
times yes
yeah sorry sorry for derailing you so so
you were saying you know your friends
have yeah I'm just getting the sense
that like you you know it's like you're
playing a game where you're like you
know you can interact with NPCs and
stuff but you're like you're like
ethereal you're not like a real
character
and it's like the NPC's are sort of
there and you're interacting with them
but you don't I mean it makes sense to
me that you you can't understand so it
sounds like you're confused not confused
but you really can't digest maybe that's
the word I'm looking for
that you bring value to other human
beings it's that fair like you don't
like you sort of get what they're saying
but like it doesn't yeah you're that
mean yeah you can't digest it like it's
not yeah right it's like it's like they
can't touch you you like their hand just
goes right through you it's like not
landing with you mm-hm and and I think
that comes back because you haven't like
zoned into the world yeah like you have
to be like in the world and like
existing there and understand that
you're there for other people to be able
to affect you
yeah and and I think a lot of the stuff
that people have tried isn't working
like the reason you can't get healed is
because you don't have a physical body
right you got a zone in first and like
not be a ghost and then you can like get
HP back but it comes with this basic it
comes to the basic idea that you do not
belong in this world and to me hmm what
do you think about that yeah I mean
sense but when am i when I was in a
relationship I could like I did touch
upon the world and stuff and none of
these thoughts has occurred where
anything like that I like the the colors
of the world just I appreciated it so
much more like autumn colors and stuff
like that like all small things like
because I before that I really faked a
lot like fake it till you make it I
faked my posture and things like that to
be happy but when I was in the world I
didn't even have to fake it I could see
it all and it began super clear for me
yeah so you're like a ghost that hidden
car nated and like you know ghosts see
the world in shades of grey and they
pretend but you had become a person so
it's it's actually great that you went
there because my next question was gonna
be can you tell me about your
relationship can you tell me about your
relationship how he was or char like how
did you meet your girl you said
girlfriend right yeah yeah well
technically yeah to friends yeah to
returns I'm thinking there's there was
one time we met earlier faced but
through threats yeah show me your honor
but there were some things that she
noticed with which I filtrated totally
right not really sure why even because
every time I've had a girlfriend and
talk and try to introduce them to my
parents were I I don't remember why I
did it
or if it was my mom forcing me to do it
I don't really remember why but they
were all super terrified with it which I
am but they all are super terrified
who's they
the girlfriends I've had ok the
different ones yeah and but
was when in a very long time she noticed
also how how toxic my mom was towards me
and I thought I didn't even think
anything of it because that was such a
kind of low tier toxic nough so to say
where I didn't even does your mom being
nice
yeah yeah exactly and and I did it like
that was so out of my filtration but she
mentioned that night she was like dude I
got so infuriated I wanted to like kind
of scream back at her or punch her but I
didn't even notice that and she had to
highlight that because usually it's so
much worse who said I want to scream at
someone and my girlfriend at that time
so she felt like screaming at your mom
yeah in punch sugar yeah at my mom
because my mom was trash-talking me so
much like so I was doing the cooking and
stuff like that and yeah working and
stuff like that so she said I I think
she said something along the line like
oh I I hope you take care of him he's so
useless he doesn't even know how to cook
and take care of himself and things like
that but yeah it got totally out of my
radar I didn't even think of it that
much how does it feel to have someone
who wants to defend you like that it
felt nice it's like it felt really nice
because in that time as I said I was
really living the world and I think
that's maybe why I'll also filtrated her
talk even better than ever
cuz I guess I guess no matter if I
ignore her and stuff like that it still
sips in through my ears no matter what
um no matter what I do and they even if
I pretend not to hear her or put like
earphones and earplugs in my ya ears
they still go through I still get
affected by it but there I didn't even
care about it so it's sure and
and so tell me about you guys were
together for five and a half years
that's a long time yeah yeah and they
actually moved in immediately even
together but yeah we talked about a lot
before and met before that as well in in
when did your breakup
um three years ago and when you happy
for the time that you all work together
yeah yeah what what ended up happened
did you feel like you had substance or
Restall ghost hi
I realized also I picked up a lot of
things like I realized but I don't know
exactly at what order it becomes um but
I realized I picked up some toxic nest
for my mom that I said to her and she
said it back to me ah like I think I
realized my toxic naissance stopped
myself but but then I realized that she
was quite toxic in in in the same way as
my mom beep in in a different way I mean
it was a little bit more toxic
relationship in the end that kill it I
would say what was toxic about your
relationship or it was actually much
more on to that than that there was some
things we didn't really agree on and
like what so will William here's here's
what I'm trying to do so I'm seeing the
beginning of your relationship where
you're happy
there's someone who cares about you is
defending yeah and I'm wondering like
what happened to that relationship yeah
I think it started fading out it
reference point like it's faded out more
and it started becoming heavy being in
the relationship ship two in the end
like it really didn't like yeah
something I kind of Google because I
tried a lot because I fear I think I
have like fear of embedment and stuff
like that so I tried to a lot to get
this relationship to work we even broke
up like yeah three times the third time
I really got the courage to really end
it but it took more maybe it was things
from the past that got back to me again
but he took more to actually be in the
relationship like he consumed so much up
more energy what was hard about the
relationship
everything I mean I don't know if it
makes sense but it's yeah and we didn't
really see like we did before as well
like the yeah like the sparks of being a
not really getting a lot of vagueness
from you I'm getting a lot of
conclusions and a lot of vagueness yes
and I really do understand you gave me a
lot of color and substance to the
beginning of your relationship yeah but
I'm sure you know a lot of color and
substance at the end you call it talk
yeah we tried to Stan yes sell stocks we
try to so I tried to get it to work for
a long time cuz well no that's way here
trying to get to work our relationship
to work that we had what was not work so
what I'm hearing very clearly is your
efforts in the hopelessness but I'm not
hearing like what the problem was that
there was like for instance we didn't
agree on like the dividing parts of like
fixing the house cleaning and cooking
like those trivial things and and tell
me how did you guys disagree about that
well
I'll break up with her there was a lot
of reasons a lot of reasons
they're from trivial to more complexed
but yeah sum it up it was like consuming
more energy than giving it up
tell me tell you why mmm there I don't
know how personal it is like I I don't
wanna say it without her permission and
stuff like that okay that's that's
totally that's good so yeah it's it's
it's too hard for me to actually say
it's here okay but you know what they
are yes I would say so yeah for sure cuz
I was the one proposing to even break up
to you and stuff like that yeah so I I
kind of raised those things to get it to
work but it didn't so that's why I was
like yeah so can you tell me what you
know we you said after a couple of years
it started to become harder like what
became harvard uh to be in the
relationship yeah what about the
relationship came hard yeah I mean to
even um I don't know it felt like it
hindered me a lot to like she was so shy
so whenever we had to meet friends I had
to be the one contacting and stuff like
that and I started irritating about
these stuffs as well like there was a
lot of things I started to get irritated
about and stuff like that is good you
feel like she wasn't pulling her weight
in the relationship like she was yeah
her fair share
yes yes definitely that's one of the big
ones well that's one of the bigger
reasons
can you just map out the other bigger
reasons like I once again you don't have
to say anything that you're concerned
about yeah I I mean is that okay to
share with us or is that not okay [ __ ]
well first let's cuz I don't want you to
say things that you don't want to say
but like if I ya know I'm gonna skip
that because I okay want her to me first
- yeah let me okay then let me say this
but we went on a psychologist to get a
try to try to fix it as a co well that's
good so yeah we really tried a lot of
things but yes have you been dating now
yeah you gonna pick up three years ago
right yeah yeah yeah I've been on some
dates and yeah I have yes somewhat
disappointing but yeah but one of them
was quite nice I would say um but I I
don't think it's gonna lead to anywhere
yeah why not cuz she doesn't really want
to have anything serious and you were
looking for something serious yeah I
would say so but I've been thinking a
lot about just being happy and stuff
like that - in in the relationship so
that's kind of what we agreed and now as
we are where we are
yes okay but yeah I would definitely
want a more serious um I wouldn't
here I actually got a lot of things
from your community it's an awesome
community so I'm actually digging into
which yeah sparked some more new hopes
for me as well and I've actually done
something else that has made me feel so
much better now as well so I'm actually
more at the yeah it's been good but yeah
I just made future itself what have you
been so it sounds like you started
feeling better after hmm because at the
very beginning you said you started
feeling better after being like active
in our community then you started to
slip back so yeah well yeah but slipping
back was even before or even in the
community but I tried an SSRI
alternative which helps a lot so yeah
now that just lifted me up a lot and I
found
think that correlates to me a lot
someone linked some sea PTSD if you know
what it is yeah yeah and it resonates
extremely much with me so I'm actually
reading a book about it now so good in
hopes and so far 40 50 pages in and I
feel like it's describing me literally
yeah so what's the book that it it's
called from well see PTSD from surviving
to thriving cool yeah okay so when did
you start to get better because it
sounds like you started getting better
recently so it sounds like there was it
was when I took this alternative I I
don't know if it's better it just it
just removes the debuff so to say by I
don't know what happens if I stop it or
like the wound is still there tried to
heal and heal right so it's gonna be
interesting to see when I stopped doing
that for a while what what's gonna
happen as well so I'm at you sir are you
feeling better nowadays I am feeling
better when I've started taking it yes
how long have you been taking it one and
a half month okay hmm and and so it
sounds like you now in your psychologist
is aware that you have C PTSD or no I
actually called her up and mention it
when I got to know about it and we
actually took a session again and stuff
like that cuz she was not really
surprised if I fall him back but I told
her that I've fallen back to the battle
tracks and stuff like that but I'm
really confused are you or have you
fallen back are you doing better I'm
sorry I feel after up taking the
alternatives I feel better
like I have energy to do things now yeah
it's not a big weight I can't even do my
hobbies I can't even game I couldn't
even game before like II I got disgusted
by me
playing ADA because I okay anything I
did was just horrible water yeah
sigh even though when I forced myself to
do things I couldn't but now I actually
can do things good for you man yeah
definitely
so yes I am better but I wonder if I'm
better only because I'm taking them and
then when I stop I come come back
exactly where I was before like yes that
what I can help you with so what can I
help you with mmm I was wondering if you
if you knew where to go next
fantastic from my point of view yeah
okay and that I can certainly help you
William it sounds like you're doing
better yeah and what I'm hearing from
you is fear that the only reason you're
doing better is because you have this
artificial medication that's tampering
with your neuro chemistry and that
you're not actually doing better hmm so
now let me tell you what healing looks
like okay so like I guess what I'm
hearing from you is can I still get
healed or is this another shield yeah
like because the medication feels like a
shield and that's I think exactly what
it is and can you be fully healed and
maybe what you're looking for me is
direction and how to get fully healed or
how to get healed and what's the role of
medication how do you move forward and
the short answer is that I think okay so
here we go okay and then I'll give you a
chance to ask questions then maybe we'll
meditate and we'll wrap up does that
sound okay yep okay so I'm gonna start
by sharing with you something called
bunch of Goya theory which is gorgeou
means sheath like what you put a sword
in you know like a sheet and then bunch
means five so the idea here is that you
have five layers of being so when we
think about William William is like has
a physical body and then William also
has
thoughts like those are separate things
right like if I if you lose an arm or
you still William yep if you have a body
and then unfortunately like your
grandmother it sounds like she's got
dementia and I you know it's a terrible
thing to deal with you know she has a
physical body but like who she is as a
person has sort of slipped away right so
do you see that like who a person is is
not like mind or body
it's like mine bus body plus actually
other stuff so a couple thousand years
ago Yogi's or Ayurvedic physicians
called vidiians unclear exactly you know
what they were said that basically there
are five layers of being so the first
layer of being is physical the second is
energetic the third is emotional the
fourth is intellectual and the fifth is
spiritual and I think in order for you
to be healed you've got to get like
healing done on all of those levels okay
so let's talk about each of your
problems wonder if I should draw this
out can you hold on a second I'm gonna
go grab do you want iPad do you want
diagrams planets okay give me a second
okay let's just take a quick break it
run to the restroom if you need to I'm
gonna grab water and then I'm gonna grab
my iPad okay can you see we good to go
let's check in with twitch chat can you
all see that okay all right
so William your joshimuz how do you get
fully healed right yeah and we're yeah
yeah so yeah I'm gonna tell you how you
can get fully healed okay so it starts
with this bunch goorsha
okay so you have physical energetic and
what I'm gonna do is break down your
quote-unquote
diagnosis amongst these and so you're
gonna see how all of the things that are
wrong with you not I mean all but that's
grandiose so I'm gonna show you the
different essentially you've got like
five layers and what's going on is that
of your layers has been attacked and
damaged in different ways so the process
of filth all healing actually requires
you to to heal each of these layers and
we'll sort of it requires you to heal
each of the layers and then the other
problem that I'll try to show you is why
you feel hopeless because the things
that you're healing are actually not on
the layer that the damage was done and
I'll explain what that means okay so the
first thing is is you have this sense of
sluggishness right so let's do like dye
diagnosis here okay and then let's do
like treatment over here so if we think
about sluggishness do you think that
that's physical energetic emotional
intellectual or spiritual your body
being heavy physical okay so sluggish I
don't know actually in no way I yeah
wait it's an energetic
very good so it's actually on more than
one and okay so let's think about like
so just talking to your psychologist
help you with your feelings of
sluggishness if it helped yes does it I
mean it came
yeah okay but so so not as a hell not as
heavy as before as well okay so so this
is a good example of like if we have you
know emotional treatment here so if we
do medication that gives us a lot of
healing right if we do talk therapy
so that's actually the emotional mind
right so if we do emotional treatments
for physical problems we get a little
bit of benefit but do you see how
medication helps way more than talking
about your feelings mm-hmm so the other
interesting thing okay so we'll get to
that so the other thing that you can do
is have you ever done chi gong or prana
I am do you meditate with us on stream
I've meditated for a while yes okay so
there are some kinds of meditation that
are called Brown ayam or in the Chinese
system what's your ethnicity by the way
yeah it's Chinese and what part of the
world are you in Sweden okay so like if
you do pranayama or Qi Gong these are
specifically meditative practices that
are aimed at boosting your energetic
self or your chi or your prana
does that make sense mm-hmm so it's like
not like meditating on you know the
nature of things or stuff like that it's
not an intellectual meditation it's like
an energetic meditation so if you guys
have ever heard of the wim HOF method
have you ever heard of wim HOF no so wim
HOF is this guy who learned this like
form of I think Tibetan meditation where
like he can now do things that are
physically impossible in terms of like
resisting cold so he'll go and like sit
and die yeah and so the thing is like
what he does is like physically not
possible you can't be in hypothermic
water for an hour and like not lose
fingers but that's literally what wim
HOF is capable of doing what wim HOF
does is pran I am so like vish it
absolutely works there's also data that
suggests that doing Brown I am actually
makes you resistant to heart attacks
which I can go into the physiology of
like
how that works but because it's actually
really fascinating the point is that you
can actually do things through Braun I
am and chi-gong that will boost your
energy I don't know how else to put it
but like when you feel sluggishness if I
were to do blood tests I may find
vitamin D being low right so that's an
example of something that leads to
depression low level vitamin D levels
lead to depression it's possible that
your vitamin D deficient but you just
feel sluggish if I take you to a doctor
and they listen to your lungs and I take
you to like an orthopedic surgeon and I
get him to like test your strength
nothing is physically gonna be wrong
with your body you get that when you're
sluggish but yeah something it feels
like literally like your sluggishness is
an energy problem and there are some
techniques what the yogis realize like
there are some techniques that you can
do to boost your energy because you're
not doing something physical it's like
they're working specifically on the
energetic body another good example of
this is yoga or Tai Chi and there are
studies that show that yoga and Tai Chi
is superior to exercise its meaning
things like arthritis and if you go to
people who are experts in yoga and you
ask them why do you think that yoga is
superior to exercise because then both
of them you're moving right so like why
is yoga superior to Tai Chi in some
clinical trials there's a great paper by
for example Chen Chen Wang in the New
England Journal of Medicine from like
2010 12 where she does a trial on
osteoarthritis and compares Tai Chi to
exercise and finds that Tai Chi is
superior and so the question is that
both of these are physical practices
scientifically how is it that Tai Chi
outperforms exercise because you're
moving your body in both cases does that
make sense but how that you should get
the same effect but clearly
scientifically we are finding that Tai
Chi is not the same as exercise and if
you ask Tai Chi masters what they say is
yeah it's because we work on an
energetic level not just the physical
one what does that mean
no one has any [ __ ] idea like
scientists have been trying to find
evidence of chi or prana and they've
never been
to find it all we know is that when you
incorporate when you design a practice
that's based on this hoity-toity
unscientific principle of energy it
actually outperforms purely physical
practices that is a scientific fact so
my point is that in terms of healing
yourself you can do these things okay
and what that's gonna do over time is
when you take out the medication you're
gonna lose the benefit of the medication
you with me yeah but if you do these
things in the meantime this is gonna
make a very slow plus very very slow and
if you do this for six months and then
you stop medication you're gonna have
like a plus that's left over and you'll
do better without medication does that
make sense
mm-hmm okay so basically the thing about
energetic practices in Bronte um is that
they're gonna heal you that it's like
it's like a regeneration buff you're
gonna heal like one hit point every week
and so if that's all you do when you're
feeling super depressed and sluggish
it's not gonna be finished enough for
you to notice any difference with me
yeah I can't see your face now that's
why I'm asking
oh okay and at the same time it's
because I have the iPad pulled up gotcha
so oh actually but maybe yeah I have to
have it below but at the same time it is
gonna heal you over time the other
problem is that if you are sluggish
you're not gonna have the time or energy
to be able to do yoga or pranayama
does that make sense yeah so what we
have to do is start with medication so
that you feel more energy and then you
use that shield or the artificial energy
boost of medication to start to do other
things that are gonna lead to more
long-term healing you good with that
yeah yeah okay now we're gonna talk
about other things so then okay so this
is fine but is your problem restricted
to physical and energetic stuff no where
does see PTSD go and will explain what
that is in a second where do you think
see PTSD fix fits on
and like emotional absolutely okay
so let's explain what see PTSD is can
you tell us what it means complex PTSD
and what makes something complex PTSD
versus regular PTSD um I'm event that
continuously happens over a period of
time rather than just one event
excellent so let's say that you know I'm
walking down the street and I walk past
some of the riots that are going on and
a police officer shoots a rubber bullet
and I'm carrying my groceries which
actually happened to a lady and the the
bullet hits me in the face and you know
even people have lost eyes and stuff so
that's a one-time event that leads to
post-traumatic stress disorder all you
need is a single event to end up with
post-traumatic stress disorder
post-traumatic stress disorder affects
people in particular ways it's
characterized by flashbacks nightmares
things like that but their intrinsic
sense of self is not necessarily
destroyed by a singular event right
because if I walk down the street and
like I'm dr. K and I'm like I feel
confident in Who I am as a human being
and something traumatic happens to me
that's terrible and it could be
destroying me as a human being but it
doesn't have to destroy me as a human
being
what complex PTSD is is when trauma
happens to you over and over and over
and over again so when William tells us
that he is an eight-year-old boy who is
screaming at his mom to stop and banging
his head against a wall and she
continues to yell at him for an hour and
a half and that [ __ ] happens day after
day after day after day that is a whole
different ball game
from being like shot once or being
robbed or being raped or whatever that's
complex PTSD okay so now let's think
about what are the treatments of complex
PTSD what do you think medication is
going to do for that
it just gives you this temporary booth
buff that we talked about like right so
that's kind of like talking for emotions
though talking at like acting on an
emotional level for a physical problem
only gives you like one point of healing
does that make sense
hmm and so medication for an emotional
problem only gives you one point of
healing does that make sense yeah yeah
right so I want could I add something as
well sure so I think what we tried to
cure was like regular PTSD so to say
with my psychologist but and that's why
I guess it caused so much confusion why
I'm still feeling as I did and stuff
like that excellent so you're you took
you took the next part right out of my
mouth the real truth is that complex
PTSD doesn't go here it goes here and
this is where PTSD goes because with
what complex PTSD what happens is that
your sense of a human being gets [ __ ]
that's a spiritual problem this goes
back to ghosts why am I here right
that's not emotions do I deserve to live
does that make sense like
that's not an emotional issue that's
like a spiritual issue what do you think
about that huh yeah yeah it makes total
sense cuz it's it I mean it didn't
really help me so it's example so this
is why talk therapy is gonna be 1 plus 2
plus or three pluses hmm what do you
think okay makes sense 1 plus right so
your psychologist can help you here if
you had regular PTSD but the
psychologist is only going to be a 1 +
over here and this is the biggest
problem that I think actually your
psychologist can't help you with three
pluses but they have to do that kind of
work so this is the biggest problem that
I see with like a lot of quote unquote
mental health diagnosis is that like so
the reason that I'm an effective
psychiatrist is because I actually don't
do a whole lot of psychiatry what I do
is a lot of spiritual work because I
think people like you when I said that
if the core of your problem will is or
William is that like you don't even know
if you deserve to live so we can deal
with the suicidality and the negative
emotions and shame and all that [ __ ] all
of that stuff is over here right so this
is shame you know feels bad man right
that's all emotional stuff and now we
get to another problem which is that
you're an analytical guy so what you try
to do is essentially like ant like you
use analytical treatments for emotional
problems and this is the worst is that
when you ask yourself like what you have
this feeling of being a ghost right and
then what happens is you start asking
yourself questions about do I deserve to
be here you start to use your analytical
mind to solve a spiritual problem and
that doesn't actually get you [ __ ] or
maybe oneplus does that I guess this is
the reason why I can't where they listen
to it as well like any emotions as that
feel would Lincoln is say more about
that so like I try to listen to my
emotions why
am i failing sad and [ __ ] right now but
it's more like a constant noise and and
it's it's more because it's on the
spiritual level rather than the
emotional or either one so eat your
analytical an analytical approach to
your emotions is gonna get you even if
it's emotional the analytical approach
is not going to help very much and if
it's spiritual it's not going to help
very much the whole reason that people
like you have trouble getting fully
healed is because your treatments do not
line up with the sources of your
problems
right for a physical problem you need a
physical treatment for an energetic
problem you need an energetic treatment
for an emotional problem you need talk
therapy for complex PTSD you need to
figure out why am I here and how do I
deserve to live now that's not going to
happen to them through talk therapy
that's gonna happen through something
like meditation right and how does
meditation help you have to sit and you
have to feel that you and like it's kind
of hard to describe or happiness in a
relationship right so during the good
years with your golf girlfriend because
where does happiness in a relationship
go here it's not just emotional maybe
it's emotional right so maybe maybe goes
over here too I'm not really sure okay
but the key thing is that I think when
you were happy in the relationship the
reason that you felt more human and less
of a ghost's the reason you saw the
world in color is because she gave you a
sense of belonging what do you think
about that know for sure for sure and so
what happened is she answered this
question for you do I deserve to live
and in the way that she interacted with
you as a human being made you think that
the answer is yes and as their
relationship declined your sense of
deserving to live was was still young
and fragile so two years of a
relationship with a shy girl who doesn't
understand quite as much about life as
let's say someone else does could not
strengthen you enough she couldn't do
in two years of loving you and making
you feel like you belong she could not
undo 22 years of emotional damage and
complex PTSD which makes perfect [ __ ]
sense right and then when when the
relationship goes sour it's not enough
and so can you be fully healed
absolutely now I feel confident because
I've talked myself into it and I've
convinced myself in the way that you get
fully healed is that you do this and
this kind of goes back to earlier when I
was saying okay like it actually like
you have lots of different problems
absolutely and so fully heal doesn't
come from medication it comes from all
of this [ __ ] because you have [ __ ] going
on on every part of your being right the
only thing that I'm not sure is it
doesn't sound like you have an
intellectual problem what what is that
exactly
so I don't hear like strong cognitive
biases about the way that you view
yourself hmm right so like some of the
people that I talk to like a good
example of this like a couple weeks ago
we had interviewed sweet Anita and
Sweden EDA felt like she doesn't deserve
to like take care of herself so
cognitive bias goes over here oh I guess
I've worked
on that part absolutely and that's why I
don't think we see it because you did
yeah CBT or psychologist yeah right
self-compassion helped a lot extremely a
lot and meditation helped a lot in that
part too yep I would say right so the
cognate so let's just think about this
so in in emotion creates a cognitive
bias does this make sense like the
emotion is on the emotional level and
then you feel like you're a piece of
[ __ ] and then your analytical mind
creates justifications for why you're a
piece of [ __ ] but that's a separate part
of your mind and you can use self
compassion sorry guys this is getting
messy so self compassion is going to
target this and CBT which is cognitive
behavioral therapy is gonna target the
analytical construction based on the
root of your negative emotion does that
make sense yeah okay questions you wrote
meditation at the spiritual it's an a
kind of general meditation or what knows
I have been meditating for quite a while
yep so you need to do meditations that
are geared towards discovering your
sense of self so this is it's like this
people call this meditation to self
compassion like Metta meditation is over
here so that's like self compassion like
loving-kindness meditation yeah right so
there are lots of different kinds of
meditation and they work on different
levels there are also some meditations
like I'll ask people to do investigative
meditations like what is the sound of
the breath that's like
kind of an intellectual meditation so
you need to do like Who am I and in
particular there are a few powerful
mantras that will help you answer this
question okay but that's the kind of
method I'll teach you something today I
just gotta think about this the first
thing that I need to do is check in with
you though does this make sense it makes
a lot of sense yeah I'm actually really
happy to actually even see it in picture
and then and noticing and seeing the
parts like because I believe I've come a
really far away even in these like
twenty-one years even though I have like
aimlessly gone somewhere I think it
still learned me something along the way
and it makes sense when adding
everything because yeah it's maybe it's
more like all these sections I have to
work on and there's like one last piece
I haven't which I guess is like the
spiritual which I haven't really dealt
with so yeah it actually makes much
sense and yeah and so here's here's why
I think your hopelessness is completely
understandable because when you have
complex PTSD and you go to a
professional and they give you a
medication that's not gonna work and so
basically the the basic problem that
that I think the reason that you're
hopeless and it's not your fault I think
you've actually done remarkably well
given the hand that you were dealt it's
actually [ __ ] amazing is that you're
like all of your treatments are like all
over the place you're trying to solve
stuff with some courses from like other
courses and so your effect size it's
gonna be kind of like you're you know
I'm continuously like trying to heal
your right arm even though the damage is
in your left leg and the issue is that
you get a little bit of bandwidth you
get a little bit from here you get a
little bit from here and then over time
though it feels like it's not really
working because you're not targeting
your treatments towards what you've done
you are actually the if that's not even
entirely true because I think you've
actually like
cuz you had problems here and here too
it's just you've done you've actually
found good treatments right so you had
emotional feelings of and this is
exactly why it's beautiful so you had
emotional feelings of shame and then you
say self compassion helped with that and
this is the mistake this is the
diagnostic mistake that people make when
someone has complex PTSD and they've
they're filled with shame and they get
treated with self compassion they think
they are fixed but they're not fixed
because they never got to this hmm right
and so then you get hopeless because you
said okay I have complex PTSD I have all
these negative emotions I learn self
compassion and I'm not fixed and then
hopelessness is completely reasonable
because complex pts you thought you did
the treatment for complex PTSD and
you're not better and so then you're
hopeless absolutely man you should be
hopeless because you thought you did
what you needed to do and you did a lot
which you can tell us and you're like
hey I actually grew a lot there hey the
medication is actually really helping
and you're not fully healed and so then
your your question is beautiful now we
come back to your original question can
I become fully healed in the answer and
it's completely reasonable for you to
ask that question because you did this
and you did this and you talked to a
psychologist and you found yourself not
being fully healed yeah and then you
start to question your like if I talk to
the psychologist more if I add on more
medications or if I learn more self
compassion
will I be fully healed and the thing is
you actually know the answer to that
will and the answer is no you're not
going to be fully healed not from that
yeah and so I feel like this picture and
the overview if it feels like it's in
capture kind of any problem I guess
and absolutely like it's an overview of
everything basically yes and this is
what the Yogi's learned they said that a
human being can be divided into these
five layers and that an attack on one
layer deserves a treatment on that same
layer and that a strong goorsha or one
strong layer can buffer or protect you
other layers so when I deal with people
with cancer right that's a gigantic
attack on the physical and the energetic
and if they are deeply spiritual people
and have a lot of emotional support they
do way better hmm
when when your grandmother so brief is
an emotional attack right it's a
different color yes it's good so grief
attacks you here and so when that
happens your physical it almost
reverberates so you get energetic damage
and you get physical damage and there's
studies that show that if someone loses
a loved one and I give them a vaccine
their immune response to the vaccine is
lower essentially vaccines become
ineffective in people who are in grief
and that's a physical effect based on an
emotional insult it's an energetic
effect based on an emotional insult when
you go to see your grandmother and she's
not there on the inside that's an
emotional blow which contributes to your
sluggishness you see that and so it's
all connected and so the cool thing is
that you can like strength in one area
and it'll kind of protect you from the
others and that's how like people this
is where resilience comes from so
somewhere in here will William I think
you're actually very strong
intellectually and that has basically
been like how you save a lot because
you've been emotionally [ __ ] you've
been I don't know if like you're
physically active or whatever maybe
you're strong physically as well but
like spiritually like you know you
something's been met missing and you've
just basically your intellect has been
like carrying the rest of your sheets
and that's why you're alive because
somewhere in there there's something
here that is like you know keeping you
going hmm
okay final questions thoughts no I'm
actually really really happy and glad
hoo-uh yeah I didn't expect too much cuz
I felt very hopeless and stuff and I
didn't expect you to even have an answer
and stuff like that but yeah well
sometimes I surprise myself it's yeah
that's that's awesome yeah III mean I
don't think I can fix you but I can give
you this so now you just think about
meditation I'm glad that I've given you
some hope which was not my intention and
for which I apologize yeah other than
that I don't know no okay so now the
question is I feel like okay so I feel
like that's sort of enough but I also
feel like I should give you the first
step in the meditation practice for how
you discover whether you deserve to be
here okay
so I have a good answer I have the
technique that I think you eventually
need I just don't know if you're ready
for it and I think the technique what
you need so I very rarely feel this way
but sometimes I'm inspired to give
someone a mantra but a mantra or mantra
is something that's usually given in a
very specific way and I feel like I know
that so sometimes when I work with
people I feel this inner sort of
inspiration that this mantra is going to
help this person I just don't know if
you're ready for it yet so let me just
think about this and let me think about
the prospect of giving a month over the
Internet and giving it to people who are
not ready for you I just have to think
through this because I thought that
holds it huh
is it cuz if not enough meditation
experience or what is it that is holding
that back I don't know if you're capable
of understanding the month right yet
because I just don't know where you are
spiritually but there's a part of me
that says that you're ready for it and
just go for it
but how if you just think about whether
I can come up with something else that
is will do the trick
hold on I'm going to get a minute okay
yeah no where's
[Music]
you
okay we'll try this I'm not gonna I'm
gonna ask you a couple questions then
we'll just see where this I don't know
where this so I'm giving you okay so if
if we ever you know if we ever had that
have the opportunity to meet in person
William I'm gonna teach you a month or
up on that day but we never meet that
then someone else will show up and
they'll teach you what you need to know
so I want you to sit up straight you're
tall right
dad no no no you're not they would talk
no whatever
okay so just sit okay so sit up straight
round out your shoulders pull them back
a little bit go okay close your eyes and
I want you to feel your hands just feel
the presence of your hands
I'm gonna ask you a couple of questions
okay so now hold one of your hands up in
front of your face and look at it just
look at it for a second okay
see that I'm gonna ask you a question is
that you hmm what do you think yeah I
mean it's a container for me yeah it's a
container of you yes but it's not you
hmm all right so put your hand down
close your eyes so now let me ask you
something if I have a container that has
let's say I have a box and in the box is
bread is the box the same thing as the
bread no okay so now I'll ask you again
or let's just reflect for a moment so
feel your hands
and and don't touch your hands just keep
them palm face up in your lap so like
kind of like like this people watching
right so just keep them palm face off
okay or what you can do is lay your
right palm on top of your left thumb
actually do this lay your right palm on
top of your left palm and sort of make
like sort of like a circle and let it
sit in your lap let your hands rest in
your lap and I want you to ask yourself
the question are these are my hands me
actually separate your hands place them
on your lap and then ask yourself is
this me like are you your hands what do
you think
I mean I would say no okay so then guys
close good yeah now put your hands
together your right hand on top of your
left hand
let your thumbs touch so you're doing
this yeah
okay so you're you're you're basically
doing this yeah okay so now I'm gonna
have some kind of a weird question
absolutely a leading question so don't
get led just really pay attention to
yourself when your hands are together
and you form that circuit do you feel
like they're more of you yes nice
[ __ ] weird right yeah I mean I like
it's I think it's the posture with the
arms that does it a lot and like I'm
lying myself yeah yeah absolutely so now
like now here's your question okay so
what the [ __ ] is that
like that's just [ __ ] weird
now is your sense of your body being
closer to you have anything to do with
the position of your hands I mean it
felt like I just took more space and
yeah you're you're right it's just weird
right like it's weird so now here's the
question
so now close your eyes hands part feel
the disconnection of you feel that you
are not your hands okay and now I want
to so now bring your hand up in front of
you look at it and look at it now is the
hand that you see or you or less you or
the same amount of you is when you are
closing your eyes and your two hands are
in your lap
um maybe even less yeah it's [ __ ]
weird none
so I'd answer but like you're going on
you're feeling right you're not telling
me what I want to hear maybe you know I
was trying to feel what I felt on the
other arm like I was comparing what I
saw and I was comparing what I I still
had my other arm on the lap so I was
referring to those points yeah that's
Brooke that's good good innovation ok ok
so like now I'm gonna ask you question
so now we're gonna reflect okay so like
we'll be feeling closer to and further
away from what's that because you've got
a sense of something right it's like
furthest here yeah closer in your lap
and even closer when they're together
yeah it's a point we had posture as well
yep but worry what is the thing that you
are getting closer to when you do these
3 things like myself if I can explain it
yeah so what is that yeah it's you're
not supposed to answer you're not
supposed to answer so now William we so
the first meditative practice is that I
want you to become familiar with this
thing so do this practice so you can
look at your and you're already doing it
right because it's good that you're
making a comparison so you know you can
look at your hand
or you can look at your face in the
mirror and then you can close your eyes
and then try to just I don't know how
else to put this
but like move on so there's there's like
I want you to imagine a road where like
the regular world is over here in that
sense of Eunice's over here I want you
to don't even necessarily try to you
know find what is over here just learn
how to move back and forth between them
right so there's this there's this and
there's this so you can do and you can
do it by looking at yourself in the
mirror you can close your eyes in front
of a mirror and just kind of be in front
of it and then you can do this and sit
up straight and then feel that closeness
to you what when you say learn you mean
learn to have this feeling without doing
that nor I'm saying that just become
familiar with the weird idea that you
can come closer
just move further and closer away from
yourself and get familiar with that room
okay okay and now I'm gonna ask you so
now sit up straight
yeah can you sit with your legs crossed
um they are yeah oh they are oh oh but
yeah sorry like like this yes thanks
yeah now next next thing is can you put
your right heel on top of your left
thigh
can you sit like this or if you can't do
that from a flexibility standpoint don't
worry I can okay now grab your other leg
down right oh okay okay yeah don't worry
yeah so now I want you to sit like this
okay also the thumb touching each area
yeah yeah and now so relax and now feel
do you feel closer to yourself again
yeah it feels like it feels like another
part is attached thank you it's more in
the below as well yeah yeah good yep
okay so now I'm going to ask you
question William does this person does
what you feel deserve to be okay
you
I don't know her yes that's the right is
okay so now this is your practice okay
so you can just sit with this person
that you are and you're right that it
feels more attached it's cool but I
think you're doing it right so if you
guys are wondering how the Yogi's came
up with the yoga postures this is how
they did it this is where would that us
come from it's because they're able to
detect certain things about the self for
lack of a better term that facilitates
connection to the self
that's why meditative postures this is
the posture by the way that Buddha and
Shiva she was you know she was well
liked he's like one of the Hindu gods so
Shiva and Buddha use this posture this
this it's called buyer of a mudra which
means fierce or terrifying this is
actually what this would theorize means
and that's the translation by Adama so
it's it's a it's a mudra of intensity
because it brings you very intensely to
yourself and it's also kind of like
severe and it can be scary and
terrifying but yeah you're okay if
you're feeling more attached that's good
you're doing it right so you just to
play around with this man that's all you
got to do and try to find out just try
to get get man Gow you don't even have
to find out who you are or anything like
that occasionally I want you to ask the
question about whether this person
deserves to be here but you don't after
you're not necessarily looking for an
answer I don't want you to figure out
who you are any [ __ ] you know yoga
calendar spiritual stuff don't worry
about any of that I just want you to
hang out with that dude yeah for a while
do the practice I would say if you want
to sit if you can sit for like you know
I tell people to start with three to
five minutes and you've done a
remarkable amount of connection in like
less than 60 seconds so the quality of
meditation is more important than the
quantity of time that you meditate the
reason that quantity of time is
important is because you want to train
yourself for having high quality
meditation on a more often basis but 60
seconds of what you did is actually fine
if you can get there do you know what I
mean by
out there yeah yeah okay so if you can
get their grant and then ideally you
want to do this like 15 to 20 minutes
like at least three days a week ideally
even every day or five days a week or
six days a week and and just hang out
with yourself
and then you know one day we'll meet in
person I hope or someone else will meet
and if you've been doing this practice
diligently I'm gonna be able to tell and
if I can tell I'm gonna give you a
mantra oh cool
and I do you mean by you can tell though
it's the same way that I because here's
the thing William I don't know if you've
done this notice this before but
sometimes I teach people to meditate and
they have these weird experiences and
then everyone at home is like I don't
know what the [ __ ] this guy is talking
about so like I don't know how I know
how to ask you questions and teach you
practices that are gonna help you
understand something about yourself but
I just know and sometimes based on the
way that you answer me I can tell that
you're doing it right or you're doing it
wrong because what I'm asking you to do
because your words cannot translate your
experience so when you say that like
crossing your legs makes you feel more
attached I know you're doing it right I
don't even know what the [ __ ] that means
but I know it's is similar to like what
I feel and it's the whole reason that I
asked you to do it the reason I asked
you to sit that way is because I wanted
you to feel more attached but I didn't
know what to call that and that looks
like it's our time okay all right so any
last questions no I don't think so okay
say good luck to William you gonna say
good luck William no no luck for William
okay
sorry would ya
all right dude seriously though thank
you very much for coming on you know I
think you can absolutely get healed
nuttin I think I shouldn't be the one
thanking you really um really yeah well
I'm glad it's helpful and and you know
it sorry for being well you're welcome
and you know sorry for being general but
don't give up hope because I really
think you can yeah I think you can get
there okay yeah take care of man thanks
okay bye bye
okay all right so let's do okay so
hopefully that made sense guys I don't
know and if for those of you that the
meditation didn't work don't worry about
it we teach a lot of we teach a lot of
different things
okay so um I just want to go ahead and
yeah so can I say can you get going now
can I finish talking no it's really
distracting I'm having trouble getting
my groove can't give me some space
No okay I don't even know if you
understand what I'm doing but okay you
want to set my lap that's fine
can I have a kiss
No okay alright so let me just
[Music]
all right so guys let me explain
something to y'all okay so that you know
what when you guys like when we were
doing fundraising like part of what we
want to do is map outs in the disciplic
bunch course your theory for you guys so
that you can make it more accessible
what are you doing
I can't I'm trying to wrap up with them
and I've got a feel and have to collect
my thoughts and if you're threatening me
with your tongue in your finger then I
can't do that
go get out of here no no I think she
understands that you guys are watching
okay okay so um yeah so French coursethe
ear is very very helpful and I highly
highly you know I don't know how you
guys would be able to do that but you
know it's something that we want to
teach a little bit more comprehensively
it's really hard to just like sit and
lecture about it it you're just so we're
working on how to make that information
more accessible to you guys a couple of
other things so you know we've got I
think we're still figuring out what
we're doing on Wednesday
we've got JD and on Friday on Wednesday
our coaching platform launches so thank
you very much for all of your support
and so we've also got you know if you
guys want to follow us on social media
and things like that and see posts about
you know various things that we're
working on you all can use exclamation
points articles and we have a lot of
people that we want to thank but I think
we may just go ahead and do that
actually yeah well we'll do that next
time cuz we're over time and I gotta run